DOCS-1174: Clarify model triplet (#1938)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/appendix/glossary/model-namespace-triplet.md

title: Model Namespace Triplet
id: model-namespace-triplet
full_link:
short_description: namespace:repo-name:name or rdk:builtin:name
aka:
---

> {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="Models" >}} are uniquely namespaced as colon-delimited-triplets in the form of `namespace:repo-name:name` for modular resources and `rdk:builtin:name` for builtin models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="Models" >}} are uniquely namespaced as colon-delimited-triplets in the form of `namespace:repo-name:name` for modular resources and `rdk:builtin:name` for built-in models.
```
[nit]

> The `repo-name` segment is generally used for the git repository of your modular resource, but you can also use it to identify a family of models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `repo-name` segment generally matches the name of the git repository of your modular resource, but you can also use it to identify a family of models.
```
[opt]

title: Model Namespace Triplet
id: model-namespace-triplet
full_link:
short_description: namespace:repo-name:name or rdk:builtin:name
aka:
---

{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="Models" >}} are uniquely namespaced as colon-delimited-triplets in the form of `namespace:repo-name:name` for modular resources and `rdk:builtin:name` for built-in models.

We recommend to use the name of the git repository of your modular resource as the middle segment.

> The `repo-name` should describe the common functionality provided across the modelor models of that module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `repo-name` should describe the common functionality provided across the model or models of that module.
```

For example:

- The `rand:yahboom:arm` model uses the repository name [yahboom](https://github.com/viam-labs/yahboom).

>   It implements the `rdk:component:arm` API to support the yahboom dofbot arm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It implements the `rdk:component:arm` API to support the Yahboom DOFBOT arm.
```

Reviewer: Actually see below; I think rather than implementing these suggestions it'd be better to eliminate these examples and just link to the key concepts doc to avoid duplication.

- The `viam-labs:audioout:pygame` model uses the repository name [audioout](https://github.com/viam-labs/audioout)
  It implements the custom API `viam-labs:service:audioout`.

> Built-in {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="rdk" text="rdk" >}} models use the triplet `rdk:builtin:name`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Built-in {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="rdk" text="RDK" >}} models use the triplet `rdk:builtin:name`.
```

For example:

> - The `rdk:builtin:gpio` model.
>   It implements the `rdk:component:motor` API to support [GPIO-controlled DC motors](/components/motor/gpio/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `rdk:builtin:gpio` model, which implements the `rdk:component:motor` API to support [GPIO-controlled DC motors](/components/motor/gpio/).
```

Reviewer: [opt] Wouldn't hurt to leave DMC in would it?
